design/Running apps on the web.md, before:

Running apps on the web
=======================

19 May 23

Aims
----

A review of the approach for running apps on the web
- Simplify deploying and running apps on the web for developers
- Less maintenance and moving parts for us
- Improved facilities like versioning, instant deploy/rollback, run old/new versions

Needs
-----

- Run client-only apps from GitHub
- Deploy client and server apps to hosting
- Avoid complex Firebase access permissions
- Allow use of private repos
- Avoid builds, but...
- Allow for builds if needed in the future
- New deployments available as quickly as possible
- Default current version
- Current version can be changed quickly by dev, up or down
- Other versions can easily be accessed by devs and general users eg with tag in URL
- Run from general app runner with app url in path
- Run from custom domain, still with versioning

Forces
------

- Setting up permissions to deploy code to Firebase is hard
- Setting up permissions to access private GitHub repo is easier - just create an API key
- Storing secrets in GitHub is fairly easy
- Storing secrets in Firebase is hard
- Secrets for other services may be needed in deployed apps
- Continually accessing files direct from GitHub would lead to problems
- Local dev server gives possibilities for deploying to Firebase
- JsDelivr will cache versions
- JsDelivr will cache unspecified version forever, so cannot use that
- JsDelivr can pull code for server apps too
- Private repos will require a different way of pulling code
- Studio has to build code for preview anyway, so could commit to GitHub
- Committing build artifacts not seen as good practice, but quite possible
- Putting builds on a different branch may be good, but may also just complicate things
- If want to commit to GitHub on a different branch, would need a dance to check it out, do the build commit, check out main again - dodgy on client
- Want to avoid Firebase-specific stuff as far as possible
- Pulling code from GitHub as needed will give flexibility, but...
- Pulling code from GitHub as needed will need to be carefully cached to avoid slowness and costs
- Good to include the index.html in the built code so it can be tailored in the future if necessary
- Probably acceptable to require extra effort for server apps at this stage
- Generating code on GitHub requires a standalone generator


Possibilities
-------------

- Generate all app and server code in studio, commit to GitHub with source
- GitHub action builds code after commit
- Use a different branch for build artifacts
- App runner looks up version via GH API (as now) but gets generated code, not source
- App runner loads index.html and replaces its own content(difficult, scripts in new content do not run), or loads it in an iframe 
- Elemento hosts app runner that runs the app
- GitHub pages host the app runner page that runs the app
- Server Hosting uses a general app runner that pulls server code from GitHub
- Store secrets in .env file
- Store secrets in storage
- Have to install node and firebase tools OR install standalone firebase tools with bundled node
- Just deploy a standard server runner function and app runner index.html
- Can avoid builds if only use modules directly imported from npm via jsDelivr
- !!! The Firebase server could be the dev server instead of running locally!
- Potential to run a shared dev server for public use

Decisions 20 May 23
-------------------

- Write generated code to disk in Studio
- Commit generated code with the source on the same branch
- App runner just loads the app code in its own DOM container
- Server app runner imports app code via same mechanism
- Server app runner can import different versions of server apps and run each concurrently
- Server app runner Firebase function is written to disk in the project directory
- Dev can install standalone firebase tools and deploy the server app runner from command line

Later
-----

- Load parts of index.html, like CSS or scripts

Commit message:

Done - Part 1 - Refactor app runners Remove functions directory and appServer stuff - now in elemento-app-server Parcel serve works differently in 2.9.0 Story updates appServer Firebase function has separate source code and converted to ESM appServer Firebase function can be configured with GitHub repo Parcel 2.9 upgrade First cut of app server downloading modules and caching in Cloud Storage

design/Running apps on the web.md, after:

Running apps on the web
=======================

19 May 23

Aims
----

A review of the approach for running apps on the web
- Simplify deploying and running apps on the web for developers
- Less maintenance and moving parts for us
- Improved facilities like versioning, instant deploy/rollback, run old/new versions

Needs
-----

- Run client-only apps from GitHub
- Deploy client and server apps to hosting
- Avoid complex Firebase access permissions
- Allow use of private repos
- Avoid builds, but...
- Allow for builds if needed in the future
- New deployments available as quickly as possible
- Default current version
- Current version can be changed quickly by dev, up or down
- Other versions can easily be accessed by devs and general users eg with tag in URL
- Security around which users can access other versions
- Run from general app runner with app url in path
- Run from custom domain, still with versioning
- Allow multiple hosting environments connected to same GitHub repo, for testing
- Run preview of server apps with immediate update
- Preview server apps only available from editor with security

Forces
------

- Setting up permissions to deploy code to Firebase is hard
- Setting up permissions to access private GitHub repo is easier - just create an API key
- Storing secrets in GitHub is fairly easy
- Storing secrets in Firebase is ~~hard~~ easy if using an Extension
- Secrets for other services may be needed in deployed apps
- Continually accessing files direct from GitHub would lead to problems
- Local dev server gives possibilities for deploying to Firebase
- JsDelivr will cache versions
- JsDelivr will cache unspecified version forever, so cannot use that
- JsDelivr can pull code for server apps too
- Private repos will require a different way of pulling code
- Studio has to build code for preview anyway, so could commit to GitHub
- Committing build artifacts not seen as good practice, but quite possible
- Putting builds on a different branch may be good, but may also just complicate things
- If want to commit to GitHub on a different branch, would need a dance to check it out, do the build commit, check out main again - dodgy on client
- Want to avoid Firebase-specific stuff as far as possible
- Pulling code from GitHub as needed will give flexibility, but...
- Pulling code from GitHub as needed will need to be carefully cached to avoid slowness and costs
- Good to include the index.html in the built code so it can be tailored in the future if necessary
- Probably acceptable to require extra effort for server apps at this stage
- Generating code on GitHub requires a standalone generator


Possibilities
-------------

- Generate all app and server code in studio, commit to GitHub with source
- GitHub action builds code after commit
- Use a different branch for build artifacts
- App runner looks up version via GH API (as now) but gets generated code, not source
- App runner loads index.html and replaces its own content(difficult, scripts in new content do not run), or loads it in an iframe 
- Elemento hosts app runner that runs the app
- GitHub pages host the app runner page that runs the app
- Server Hosting uses a general app runner that pulls server code from GitHub
- Store secrets in .env file
- Store secrets in storage
- Have to install node and firebase tools OR install standalone firebase tools with bundled node
- Just deploy a standard server runner function and app runner index.html
- Can avoid builds if only use modules directly imported from npm via jsDelivr
- !!! The Firebase server could be the dev server instead of running locally!
- Potential to run a shared dev server for public use
- Firebase extension to install app server function
- Secret key shared between app server and editor for preview
- App server has list of users (by email address?) that can access preview and/or other versions

Decisions 20 May 23
-------------------

- Write generated code to disk in Studio
- Commit generated code with the source on the same branch
- App runner just loads the app code in its own DOM container
- Server app runner imports app code via same mechanism
- Server app runner can import different versions of server apps and run each concurrently
- Server app runner Firebase function is written to disk in the project directory
- Dev can install standalone firebase tools and deploy the server app runner from command line

Update 30 May 23
----------------

- Server app runner is in an extension, with configs for repo and keys/permissions
- Use Cloud Storage to cache downloaded code

Later
-----

- Load parts of index.html, like CSS or scripts
