stories/Formula improvements Part 3.md, before:

Formula improvements Part 3
===========================

- Need either a Random Number element or a RandomNumber function to get a random integer
- Random function to do any of: 
  - pick from arg list
  - pick from an array
  - pick from a collection
  - pick a random integer between 0 and a single given value
  - random fraction 0 to 1 with no args
- Random element that gives the same value from its input until it is Reset OR until the value changes
- Functions inside functions
- Functions fix their arguments to get valueOf
- Click on a control in Navigator to add it to a formula
- Auto-complete to give a selection of possible names
- Runtime errors reported in the editor, with link to control
- Stop spell check errors in formulas
- Functions without brackets give error
- Error for reference to unknown property eg Data1.valu
- Wrap primitive results in a Proxy, so could do Set(data.x.y.z, 99)
- Null chaining - automatic?
- Allow quotes in Text
- Everything under the App Bar is available throughout the app
- Everything under the app, is available in the app bar
- Data at app level
- Live calculations at app level
- User-defined functions at app level
- If() has expressions transformed to functions so they are not evaluated unless needed
- Only allow $item in List item and list predicate/transform expressions
- Template vars in text content
- Avoiding floating point errors
- More argument checking at design time eg in Record Function
- Full type checking!
- Find a way to ensure that fixed values are the correct types (esp booleans)

Commit message:

Done - Part 1 - Refactor app runners Remove functions directory and appServer stuff - now in elemento-app-server Parcel serve works differently in 2.9.0 Story updates appServer Firebase function has separate source code and converted to ESM appServer Firebase function can be configured with GitHub repo Parcel 2.9 upgrade First cut of app server downloading modules and caching in Cloud Storage

stories/Formula improvements Part 3.md, after:

Formula improvements Part 3
===========================

- Need either a Random Number element or a RandomNumber function to get a random integer
- Random function to do any of: 
  - pick from arg list
  - pick from an array
  - pick from a collection
  - pick a random integer between 0 and a single given value
  - random fraction 0 to 1 with no args
- Random element that gives the same value from its input until it is Reset OR until the value changes
- Functions inside functions
- Functions fix their arguments to get valueOf
- Click on a control in Navigator to add it to a formula
- Auto-complete to give a selection of possible names
- Runtime errors reported in the editor, with link to control
- Stop spell check errors in formulas
- Functions without brackets give error
- Error for reference to unknown property eg Data1.valu
- Wrap primitive results in a Proxy, so could do Set(data.x.y.z, 99)
- Null chaining - automatic?
- Allow quotes in Text
- Everything under the App Bar is available throughout the app
- Everything under the app, is available in the app bar
- Data at app level
- Live calculations at app level
- User-defined functions at app level
- If() has expressions transformed to functions so they are not evaluated unless needed
- Only allow $item in List item and list predicate/transform expressions
- Template vars in text content
- Avoiding floating point errors
- More argument checking at design time eg in Record Function
- Full type checking!
- Typed editors - popup properties editor forms based on the typof the function call or object
- Find a way to ensure that fixed values are the correct types (esp booleans)
