stories/General usability Part 3.md, before:

General usability Part 3
========================

- Auto-save in editor
- Remove animation on list so things change quickly
- Retain position in list when content changes
- Editor messages are done with toasts
- Duplicate names are highlighted and handled sensibly without losing state (eg add a suffix to one name)
- Data store has type and enforces it
- Alt-hover over running app highlights the elements
- Input adornment of = in Fx mode
- Change to formula if type = at the start
- Warn if type formula in text field without changing to formula
- Action formulas indicated by special button - update Help
- Nav tree like power apps:  full width, menu at right, highlight and menu on hover
- Have fixed kind buttons non-disables but warn if try to change
- Icons on Insert Menu
- Search in Help
- Search in Navigator
- Popup help by each control, property on menu and properties panel
- Some way of getting snippets (eg a File Menu) - maybe from an Examples project that you open in another window
- Record editor
- Function to make record from values of a list of controls - use their names, if available in the state object
- Way of debugging functions and complex expressions eg the word up to date function in revision app
- Show URL of preview frame
- Stop functions showing as toString when don't have braces
- Can edit text elements content in place if fixed value (use contentEditable)

Help
----

- How to write fixed values inc lists vs formulas

Commit message:

WIP - Refactor app runners - Studio working again

stories/General usability Part 3.md, after:

General usability Part 3
========================

- Auto-save in editor
- Remove animation on list so things change quickly
- Retain position in list when content changes
- Editor messages are done with toasts
- Duplicate names are highlighted and handled sensibly without losing state (eg add a suffix to one name)
- Data store has type and enforces it
- Alt-hover over running app highlights the elements
- Input adornment of = in Fx mode
- Change to formula if type = at the start
- Warn if type formula in text field without changing to formula
- Action formulas indicated by special button - update Help
- Nav tree like power apps:  full width, menu at right, highlight and menu on hover
- Have fixed kind buttons non-disables but warn if try to change
- Icons on Insert Menu
- Search in Help
- Search in Navigator
- Popup help by each control, property on menu and properties panel
- Some way of getting snippets (eg a File Menu) - maybe from an Examples project that you open in another window
- Record editor
- Function to make record from values of a list of controls - use their names, if available in the state object
- Way of debugging functions and complex expressions eg the word up to date function in revision app
- Show URL of preview frame
- Stop functions showing as toString when don't have braces
- Can edit text elements content in place if fixed value (use contentEditable)
- Store project as separate YAML files
- Direct editing of YAML in Studio
- Reload project from disk

Help
----

- How to write fixed values inc lists vs formulas
