stories/Refactor app runners.md, before:

Refactor app runners
====================

Aims
----

- Clean up app running
- Allow types to be used in apps
- Replace "push" deploy from GitHub with a flexible "pull" approach

Requirements
------------

- ✅ Generate a code file for each app that exports the app component (as now)
- ✅ Generate HTML runner file for each app that imports the runtime, the app and runs it
- ✅ All DataTypes are included in each app code file, client and server
- ✅ The code file is named after the app
- ✅ The runner file for the first app is index.html, <appname>.html for the others
- ✅ All client code in same top-level directory - review later
- ✅ Multiple server apps generated into same top-level dir with common Firebase files
- ✅ Files in files dir
- ✅ Runs in preview
- ✅ Runs from GitHub
- Runs from Firebase hosting
- ✅ Remove AppRunnerFromStorage, AppRunnerFromUrl

Requirements Part 2
-------------------

- Builder available as separate lib
- GitHub action builds and commits to a build branch on each commit
- App can be run from built code via GitHub pages

Preparation
-----------

- ✅ First: Refactor Builder, build.ts, previewFiles.ts and usages in Editor and EditorRunner
- ✅ Possible components: 
  - Project loader: Node, browser
  - File loader: Node, browser
  - File directory reader: Node, browser
  - HTTP loader: Node, browser
  - File writer: Service worker, HTTP Put and file system
- ✅ Builder dependency injections:
  - Project file loader
  - Asset file directory reader and file loader
  - Runtime file loader
  - Client file writer
  - Server file writer
- ✅ Builder actions: build, update project, update files
- ✅ Builder accessors: code, errors
- ✅ EditorRunner owns builder, passes code and errors into Editor
- Update imports without hundreds of versions being kept - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47675549/how-do-i-cache-bust-imported-modules-in-es6

App Runner rework - client side
-------------------------------

- ✅ Editor ProjectBuilder writes generated code to disk
- ✅ App runner gets built code from GitHub
- ✅ App runner does not use service worker
- Review run and runForDev in index.html for prod and preview

App Runner rework - server side
-------------------------------

- App server running in a Firebase function
- Index.html in FB hosting
- ✅ server can pull code from GitHub
- App server can accept PUTs from editor
- App server serves preview code
- Builder writes to app server
- App server protects preview PUT and GET with secret key or Firebase login
- Builder or Firebase deploy writes Firebase boilerplate to project directory
- Firebase deploy sets everything up correctly
- OR Runner can be installed as a Firebase extension
- Remove preview window
- Remove old Builder and build.ts
- Don't load runtimes and other unnecessary files into GitHub

Further requirements
--------------------
- App runner finds default main app name from index.html
- App runner can use specified version
- App runner gets default from tag
- Server App server can use specific version or tag

Notes
-----


To do
-----


Technical
---------

- Server app runner is a Firebase function running an express app
- Configured in hosting to run on <hostname>/capi
- It is set up to serve apps from one GitHub repo (how? - function config? Hard coded constant?)
- First part of path is version: _ for latest, tag, commit id
- Next part is the app name
- Final part of the path name is the function to call
- Request handling procedure:
  - Get the current user
  - Construct the path of the app module and version on GitHub
  - Check if file exists in disk module store
  - If not:
    - Construct GitHub or jsDelivr path
    - Retrieve text
    - Write to file with the app module path
  - Dynamic import the server app modue from the file
  - Call the default export function with the current user to get the app instance for the request
  - Get the function and parameters from the request
  - Call the function
  - Send the result

Commit message:

Done - Part 1 - Refactor app runners Remove functions directory and appServer stuff - now in elemento-app-server Parcel serve works differently in 2.9.0 Story updates appServer Firebase function has separate source code and converted to ESM appServer Firebase function can be configured with GitHub repo Parcel 2.9 upgrade First cut of app server downloading modules and caching in Cloud Storage

stories/Refactor app runners.md, after:

Refactor app runners
====================

Aims
----

- Clean up app running
- Allow types to be used in apps
- Replace "push" deploy from GitHub with a flexible "pull" approach

Requirements
------------

- ✅ Generate a code file for each app that exports the app component (as now)
- ✅ Generate HTML runner file for each app that imports the runtime, the app and runs it
- ✅ All DataTypes are included in each app code file, client and server
- ✅ The code file is named after the app
- ✅ The runner file for the first app is index.html, <appname>.html for the others
- ✅ All client code in same top-level directory - review later
- ✅ Multiple server apps generated into same top-level dir with common Firebase files
- ✅ Files in files dir
- ✅ Runs in preview
- ✅ Runs from GitHub
- Runs from Firebase hosting
- ✅ Remove AppRunnerFromStorage, AppRunnerFromUrl

Requirements Part 2
-------------------

- Builder available as separate lib
- GitHub action builds and commits to a build branch on each commit
- App can be run from built code via GitHub pages

Preparation
-----------

- ✅ First: Refactor Builder, build.ts, previewFiles.ts and usages in Editor and EditorRunner
- ✅ Possible components: 
  - Project loader: Node, browser
  - File loader: Node, browser
  - File directory reader: Node, browser
  - HTTP loader: Node, browser
  - File writer: Service worker, HTTP Put and file system
- ✅ Builder dependency injections:
  - Project file loader
  - Asset file directory reader and file loader
  - Runtime file loader
  - Client file writer
  - Server file writer
- ✅ Builder actions: build, update project, update files
- ✅ Builder accessors: code, errors
- ✅ EditorRunner owns builder, passes code and errors into Editor
- Update imports without hundreds of versions being kept - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47675549/how-do-i-cache-bust-imported-modules-in-es6

App Runner rework - client side
-------------------------------

- ✅ Editor ProjectBuilder writes generated code to disk
- ✅ App runner gets built code from GitHub
- ✅ App runner does not use service worker
- Review run and runForDev in index.html for prod and preview

App Runner rework - server side
-------------------------------

- ✅ App server running in a Firebase function
- ✅ App server can be configured for a GitHub repo
- ✅ server can get code from GitHub
- ✅ server can use private repo with access token 
- ✅ Runner can be installed as a Firebase extension
- ✅ App server can accept PUTs from editor
- ✅ App server serves preview code
- ✅ App runner can use specified version
- Builder writes preview to app server
- Server app preview works
- App server protects preview PUT and GET with secret key or Firebase login
- Use secret for access token extension param, check all permissions and ordering for using secrets
- ✅ Index.html and client JS can be served with correct content type
- Remove preview window
- Remove old Builder and build.ts
- Don't load runtimes and other unnecessary files into GitHub

Further requirements
--------------------
- Set the Firebase function location and stop it changing on reconfiguration
- App runner finds default main app name from index.html
- App runner gets default from tag
- Preview and specified versions can run from app server on any device without being open in editor

Notes
-----

- Preview service worker can intercept capi calls
- Will need to inject password or ask for it when load page
- 


To do
-----


Technical
---------

- Server app runner is a Firebase function running an express app
- Configured in hosting to run on <hostname>/capi
- It is set up to serve apps from one GitHub repo (how? - function config? Hard coded constant?)
- First part of path is version: _ for latest, tag, commit id
- Next part is the app name
- Final part of the path name is the function to call
- Request handling procedure:
  - Get the current user
  - Construct the path of the app module and version on GitHub
  - Check if file exists in disk module store
  - If not:
    - Construct GitHub or jsDelivr path
    - Retrieve text
    - Write to file with the app module path
  - Dynamic import the server app modue from the file
  - Call the default export function with the current user to get the app instance for the request
  - Get the function and parameters from the request
  - Call the function
  - Send the result
