stories/Speech trainer example app.md, before:

Speech trainer example app
==========================

Aims
----

- Provide a useful language learning tool
- Be a useful real-world example of Elemento in use

Requirements
------------

- ✅ Maintains collection of Questions
- ✅ Maintains collection of Words
- ✅ Browser or file database
- ✅ Generates a random question from the Questions
- ✅ Accepts speech answer
- ✅ Checks answer
- ✅ Pages: Words, Questions, Play

Part 2 requirements
---------------------

- Simple game where you answer as many questions as you can in a certain time
- Does not choose the same word twice in a generated question
- Record the questions and words in each game and the results
- Display statistics on grammar points and words
- Adjust frequency of choosing questions and words to practise those with lower scores



### Word
- ✅ Set of Tags
- ✅ Set of Language Words
  - Language code
  - Text

### Question Generator
- ✅ Name
- ✅ Description
- ✅ Set of Word Selectors
  - Word Selector: 
    - Word Name 
    - Set of Tags (as string)
- ✅ English question Formula 
- ✅ French question Formula


Technical
---------

- ✅ In-line JavaScript body for Functions
- ✅ value is value of value

Commit message:

Done - Inspector improvements - Can save current expression as a watch - Can click in formula in editor to move to another element - Run actions once, in page context - Use Json view to display values - Part implementation of one-off actions - Story and design updates - Highlight or click an expression to see value in Inspector - Validate expressions based on the current page shown - Don't try to evaluate invalid expressions - Watch one or more expressions, indicate if not available - Make all functions available within the eval whether they are already used in the Page or not - Trap errors in individual expressions, show others - Trap overall errors - Show selected element when not on its page if possible - All tests running with change to single useGetStore in every generated function - Generate full code in Generator and send to preview - Not working as makes extra hook calls - Story updates - Can get values of styles properties - Evaluation handles syntax errors and runtime errors in debug expressions

stories/Speech trainer example app.md, after:

Speech trainer example app
==========================

Aims
----

- Provide a useful language learning tool
- Be a useful real-world example of Elemento in use

Requirements
------------

- ✅ Maintains collection of Questions
- ✅ Maintains collection of Words
- ✅ Browser or file database
- ✅ Generates a random question from the Questions
- ✅ Accepts speech answer
- ✅ Checks answer
- ✅ Pages: Words, Questions, Play

Part 2 requirements
---------------------

- Simple game where you answer as many questions as you can in a certain time
- Does not choose the same word twice in a generated question
- Record the questions and words in each game and the results
- Display statistics on grammar points and words
- Adjust frequency of choosing questions and words to practise those with lower scores
- Set of possible words in a particular position, including missed out - for both generating and checking
- 



### Word
- ✅ Set of Tags
- ✅ Set of Language Words
  - Language code
  - Text

### Question Generator
- ✅ Name
- ✅ Description
- ✅ Set of Word Selectors
  - Word Selector: 
    - Word Name 
    - Set of Tags (as string)
- ✅ English question Formula 
- ✅ French question Formula


Technical
---------

- ✅ In-line JavaScript body for Functions
- ✅ value is value of value
